# Comparison of acceptance of PET/MR enterography and ileocolonoscopy in patients with inflammatory bowel diseases.

DOI: [10.1016/j.clinimag.2020.03.001](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clinimag.2020.03.001)

## Abstract

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to compare PET/MR enterography with ileocolonoscopy regarding patients' acceptance and their future preference. METHODS: Between October 2014 and February 2018 one-hundred-eleven patients underwent PET/MR enterography and ileocolonoscopy within 2 weeks. Overall acceptance of each modality was rated using a 10-point Likert scale with higher score indicating worse experience. Wilcoxon test was used to assess difference. Patients' acceptance of bowel cleansing and oral intake of contrast agent was analyzed in the same way. Furthermore, to find out if diagnosis, gender and age might influence patients' acceptance and future preference, Mann-Whitney U test for ordinal and Chi-squared test for categorical parameters were applied. RESULTS: 77 patients (47 females) with a mean age of 44.5 years and diagnosed ulcerative colitis (UC; n = 46) and Crohn's disease (CD; n = 31), were included in the analysis. Overall, ileocolonoscopy was significantly better rated than PET/MR enterography (p < 0.001). Bowel cleansing was worse tolerated than oral intake of liquid (p < 0.001). Patients with CD preferred PET/MR enterography as future screening method, while UC patients favored ileocolonoscopy (p = 0.012). PET/MR enterography tended to be better accepted by CD patients (p = 0.08). Females tolerated both bowel cleansing and oral contrast agent worse than males (p = 0.05 and 0.047). No significant difference between different age groups was found. CONCLUSIONS: Ileocolonoscopy was rated as better tolerable than PET/MR and the overall rate for future preference was very similar. Optimization of both modalities might enhance patients' acceptance.
