# Corticosteroid-sparing effects of risankizumab versus ustekinumab in patients with moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease: post hoc results from the phase 3b SEQUENCE trial

DOI: [10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjag104](https://doi.org/10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjag104)

## Abstract

Abstract

Background
This post hoc analysis evaluated the corticosteroid-sparing effects of risankizumab (RZB) versus ustekinumab (UST) in patients with moderate to severe Crohn’s disease (CD) with prior inadequate response or intolerance to ≥ 1 anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) therapy.


Methods
SEQUENCE (NCT04524611) was an open-label, multicenter, randomized, efficacy assessment-blinded study. Patients were randomized 1:1 to receive RZB (intravenous [IV] 600 mg induction dose at weeks 0, 4, and 8, then a subcutaneous [SC] 360 mg maintenance dose every 8 weeks [Q8w] starting at week 12) or UST (single weight-based IV induction dose, then a SC 90 mg maintenance dose Q8w starting at week 8) up to week 48. Patients tapered corticosteroids beginning at week 2. Achievement of clinical, endoscopic, and quality of life outcomes without concomitant use of steroids (“corticosteroid-free”) and safety were assessed.


Results
In patients taking corticosteroids at baseline, response rate differences by the week 24 and 48 timepoints with RZB versus UST were 10.5% and 25.4% (P ≤ .01) for corticosteroid-free clinical remission per CD activity index and 20.4% (P ≤ .001) and 29.2% (P ≤ .01) per stool frequency/abdominal pain score, and 23.0% and 20.2% (both P ≤ .01) for corticosteroid-free endoscopic remission. Similar results were also observed for additional corticosteroid-free endpoints, including endoscopic, composite (clinical + endoscopic), and quality of life outcomes. Numerically higher exposure-adjusted event rates of serious infections and hypersensitivity with RZB and UST were observed with corticosteroid use.


Conclusion
In patients with CD refractory to anti-TNF therapy, higher rates of corticosteroid-free clinical, endoscopic, and quality of life outcomes were achieved with RZB versus UST. Both treatments were well-tolerated.


Clinical trial registration number
NCT04524611
