# MR Enterography in Ulcerative Colitis: Beyond Endoscopy.

DOI: [10.1148/rg.230131](https://doi.org/10.1148/rg.230131)

## Abstract

Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic idiopathic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that progressively affects mucosa and submuccosa of the colon and rectum in a continual pattern. In comparison, Crohn disease (CD), the other type of IBD, is a chronic transmural inflammatory disorder that can involve any part of the gastrointestinal tract. MR enterography (MRE) has emerged as an important imaging modality for the diagnosis and detection of disease activity and complications in CD, with comparable results to those of endoscopy. But MRE has been underused for assessment of UC in recent years, and clinicians heavily rely on endoscopic findings for management of UC. Despite UC being considered an endoscopically assessable disease, MRE can provide useful information beyond that obtained with endoscopy about mural or extramural abnormalities, inaccessible parts of the colonic lumen, associated extraintestinal diseases, and superimposed pathologic conditions. Moreover, endoscopy might be contraindicated in some clinical settings due to the risk of colonic perforation. In addition to depicting the features of UC activity in different phases, MRE demonstrates findings of disease chronicity that cannot be achieved with endoscopy, particularly in a patient with colitis of unknown cause. The valuable diagnostic role of MRE to exclude undiagnosed CD in patients with UC who have refractory disease or those with postproctocolectomy complications is also emphasized. Radiologists can play a crucial role in the management of UC with MRE by addressing what is beyond endoscopy. ©RSNA, 2023 Test Your Knowledge questions are available in the supplemental material.
