# Magnetic Resonance Imaging of the Gastrointestinal Tract: Current Role, Recent Advancements and Future Prospectives.

DOI: [10.3390/diagnostics13142410](https://doi.org/10.3390/diagnostics13142410)

## Abstract

This review focuses on the role of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the evaluation of the gastrointestinal tract (GI MRI), analyzing the major technical advances achieved in this field, such as diffusion-weighted imaging, molecular imaging, motility studies, and artificial intelligence. Today, MRI performed with the more advanced imaging techniques allows accurate assessment of many bowel diseases, particularly inflammatory bowel disease and rectal cancer; in most of these diseases, MRI is invaluable for diagnosis, staging, and disease monitoring under treatment. Several MRI parameters are currently considered activity biomarkers for inflammation and neoplastic disease. Furthermore, in younger patients with acute or chronic GI disease, MRI can be safely used for short-term follow-up studies in many critical clinical situations because it is radiation-free. MRI assessment of functional gastro-esophageal and small bowel disorders is still in its infancy but very promising, while it is well established and widely used for dynamic assessment of anorectal and pelvic floor dysfunction; MRI motility biomarkers have also been described. There are still some limitations to GI MRI related to high cost and limited accessibility. However, technical advances are expected, such as faster sequences, more specific intestinal contrast agents, AI analysis of MRI data, and possibly increased accessibility to GI MRI studies. Clinical interest in the evaluation of bowel disease using MRI is already very high, but is expected to increase significantly in the coming years.
