# Treat-to-Target in Ulcerative Colitis: How Soon Is Now?

DOI: [10.3390/jcm15020759](https://doi.org/10.3390/jcm15020759)

## Abstract

Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic progressive inflammatory bowel disease, with evolutive potential for extension to the entire colon, development of complications and need for colectomy. Therapeutic goals in UC have moved from symptom control to more stringent outcomes such as endoscopic and histologic remission, which have been observed to correlate with improved long-term outcomes. Disease clearance, a composite endpoint simultaneously including clinical remission, endoscopic and histologic healing, has been recently proposed as the ultimate target. A treat-to-target approach, as endorsed by the STRIDE II consensus, with a tight monitoring and treatment escalation when predefined endpoints are not reached, is proposed as a strategy to achieve complete disease control. However, unlike Crohn's disease (CD), the evidence supporting this approach for the management of UC is limited and its implementation in routine clinical practice is not widely diffused. Recent real-life data show that almost half of UC patients are not adequately controlled with current therapies according to STRIDE II criteria, due to steroid overuse, persistent signs of inflammation, active extra-intestinal manifestations and impaired quality of life. This perspective paper explores current evidence and future directions on treat-to-target strategies in UC for clinical research and practice.
